update Ignore docs (#1572)
semgrep/semgrep-docs: docs/ignoring-files-folders-code.md

This document defines **files, folders and code** as those that are **relevant to a Semgrep scan**. For example, `.jpg` files are not a part of Semgrep's scope and therefore are not part of the scope of this document.

## Customize ignore behavior

Semgrep provides several methods to customize ignore behavior. Refer to the following table to see which method suits your goal:

| Goal | Method |
|:---- |:------ |

> | To scan all files within Semgrep's scope each time you run Semgrep (only files within `.git` are ignored). | Create an empty `.semgrepignore` file in your repository root directory or in your project's working directory. |

Reviewer: I think this document covers `semgrep ci` scans as well; if that's the case, we should probably mention the project ignores in this item as well, as they will still be sent down and many of them overlap with the default ignores from the CLI (which is what .semgrepignore overrides).

| To ignore custom files and folders each time you run a scan. | Add these files to your `.semgrepignore` file or [define them through Semgrep AppSec Platform](#define-ignored-files-and-folders-in-semgrep-appsec-platform).|
| To ignore specific code blocks each time you run a scan. | Create a comment with the word `nosemgrep`. |
| To ignore files or folders for a particular scan. | Run Semgrep with the flag `--exclude` followed by the pattern or file to be excluded. See [CLI reference](/cli-reference).

> | To include files or folders for a particular scan. | Run Semgrep with the flag `--include` followed by the pattern or file to be included. See CLI reference. When including a pattern from a `.gitignore` or `.semgrepignore` file, `--include` does not override either, resulting in the file's exclusion. |

Reviewer: Is it worth mentioning that `--include` will exclude everything that doesn't match, as well?

| Goal | Method |
|:---- |:------ |

> | To scan all files within Semgrep's scope each time you run Semgrep (only files within `.git` are ignored). | Create an empty `.semgrepignore` file in your repository root directory or in your project's working directory, or [remove the items listed in your project's **Path Ignores** list](#define-ignored-files-and-folders-in-semgrep-appsec-platform)  in Semgrep AppSec Platform. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| To scan all files within Semgrep's scope each time you run Semgrep (only files within `.git` are ignored). | Create an empty `.semgrepignore` file in your repository root directory or in your project's working directory, and for `semgrep ci` scans, [remove any entries listed in your project's **Path Ignores** list](#define-ignored-files-and-folders-in-semgrep-appsec-platform)  in Semgrep AppSec Platform. |
```
again not picky about wording here, but for platform-enabled scans both are required

1. Sign in to [Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login?return_path=/manage/projects).
2. From the Dashboard Sidebar, select **[Projects](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/projects)** > **[Project name]**.
3. Find the project you want to modify, then click its <i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> **gear** icon in the **Settings** column.
4. To define files and folders that Semgrep Code and Semgrep Supply Chain ignore:
   1. Click **Code (SAST) & Supply Chain (SCA)** to expand and display the **Path Ignores** box.
   2. Enter files and folders to ignore in the **Path Ignores** box.
   3. Click **Save changes**.
5. To define files and folders that Semgrep Secrets ignores:
   1. Click **Secrets** to expand and display the **Path Ignores** box.
   2. Enter files and folders to ignore in the **Path Ignores** box.
   3. Click **Save changes**.

> Including files and folders through this method is **additive**. When Semgrep AppSec Platform makes a scan, it looks for a `.semgrepignore` within the repository. If no `.semgrepignore` file is found, Semgrep temporarily creates one and adds items from Semgrep AppSec Platform's Path Ignores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Including files and folders through this method is **additive**. When a `semgrep ci` scan is run, it looks for a `.semgrepignore` within the repository. If no `.semgrepignore` file is found, Semgrep temporarily creates one and adds items from Semgrep AppSec Platform's Path Ignores.
```
I'm not particular about the wording, but the platform doesn't initiate scans, the CLI does. (Managed scanning is a partial exception to this, but things like ignores which are part of the config are still a response to a request from the CLI to start a scan.)

Adding items to Semgrep AppSec Platform's **Path Ignores** box doesn't override default Semgrep ignore patterns included with its CLI tool, since the patterns are additive. However, items added to `.semgrepignore` override default Semgrep CLI patterns.

### Add items to `.semgrepignore` during findings triage

> You can also add files to `.semgrepignore` while triaging individual findings using Semgrep AppSec Platform in the **No grouping** view on the Findings page:

Reviewer: This doesn't appear to be possible from the Findings list view anymore. It is possible from either grouping mode once you get to the finding details page (since that's just a page for one finding either way).

I'm not actually sure if this is intended behavior, so it could be worth following up with the team. But for now I would say just change this to "while triaging individual findings using Semgrep AppSec Platform" and then say that you first go to the Details page in Step 2 below.

1. Sign in to [Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login?return_path=/manage/projects).
2. From the Dashboard Sidebar, select **[Projects](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/projects)** > **[Project name]**.
3. Find the project you want to modify, then click its <i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> **gear** icon in the **Settings** column.

> 4. To define files and folders that Semgrep Code and Semgrep Supply Chain ignores:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. To define files and folders that Semgrep Code and Semgrep Supply Chain ignore:
```

   1. Click **Code (SAST) & Supply Chain (SCA)** to expand and display the **Path Ignores** box.
   2. Enter files and folders to ignore in the **Path Ignores** box.
   3. Click **Save changes**.
5. To define files and folders that Semgrep Secrets ignores:
   1. Click **Secrets** to expand and display the **Path Ignores** box.
   2. Enter files and folders to ignore in the **Path Ignores** box.
   3. Click **Save changes**.

Including files and folders through this method is **additive**. When Semgrep AppSec Platform makes a scan, it looks for a `.semgrepignore` within the repository. If no `.semgrepignore` file is found, Semgrep temporarily creates one and adds items from Semgrep AppSec Platform's Path Ignores.

> Adding items to Semgrep AppSec Platform's **Path Ignores** box doesn't override default Semgrep ignore patterns included with its CLI tool, since the patterns are additive. However, items added to `.semgrepignore` overrides default Semgrep CLI patterns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding items to Semgrep AppSec Platform's **Path Ignores** box doesn't override default Semgrep ignore patterns included with its CLI tool, since the patterns are additive. However, items added to `.semgrepignore` override default Semgrep CLI patterns.
```

* [Ignore findings in Semgrep AppSec Platform](/semgrep-code/triage-remediation/#ignore-findings)
* [Ingore findings through GitHub PR comments](/semgrep-code/triage-remediation/#ignore-findings-through-github-pr-comments)

## Troubleshooting

**For GitLab users**: if you use [the `SAST_EXCLUDED_PATHS` variable](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/application_security/sast/#vulnerability-filters) to specify paths excluded from analysis, you may find that Semgrep doesn't honor these items. This is due to default Semgrep behavior. To explicitly exclude files, you must:

> 1. Create a `.semgrepignore` file that lists the files you want excludes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a `.semgrepignore` file that lists the files you want excluded.
```

> 2. [Update the **Path Ignores** box](#define-ignored-files-and-folders-in-semgrep-appsec-platform) in Semgrep AppSec Platform.

Reviewer: I'm pretty sure one or the other of these is sufficient (doing both is overkill, since they're additive), so we should probably be explicit about that.

* [Ignore findings in Semgrep AppSec Platform](/semgrep-code/triage-remediation/#ignore-findings)
* [Ingore findings through GitHub PR comments](/semgrep-code/triage-remediation/#ignore-findings-through-github-pr-comments)

## Troubleshooting

> **For GitLab users**: if you use [the `SAST_EXCLUDED_PATHS` variable](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/application_security/sast/#vulnerability-filters) to specify paths excluded from analysis, you may find that Semgrep doesn't honor these items. This is due to default Semgrep behavior. To explicitly include files that are typically excluded from a Semgrep scan, such as `/tests`, you must:

Reviewer: This whole section doesn't make sense to me as it's written - are users trying to exclude or include?

I think based on what the variable is called, all of this should be written to exclude the paths.

Author: I might have gotten tunnel vision here: the person asking the question wanted to include their test folder, which Semgrep excludes by default. They tried to work around this by explicitly stating what to include (the test folder) using the env var, but it didn't work because Semgrep ignored the env var.

To simplify things, I will focus on excluding paths (and how to make it so that things aren't excluded) instead of how to include things.
